[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: The next thing that
we're going to do is deal with File I/O.
And we're also gonna deal with modules and
other things like that.
So this minimist module that we npm
installed, that's something that somebody
else has provided, but what if we
wanted to make our own minimist module?
I'm gonna go ahead and
take away this stuff because we're not
going to use that stuff for right now.
And I will change this to file, and
you'll understand why I'm
doing that in just a moment.
What if we wanted to make
a program that what it did?
And by the way, I'm gonna save
this file off, save as 2.js,
that way, I don't lose what
I've already been working on.
So as we go throughout the rest of today,
we're gonna create 11 or
12 different files.
So at each kind of intersection junction
point, you'll save it is the next number.
That way you've got all the different
versions of your file to go back
to things.
So we're on to 2.js now, and
I'll change this up here to say 2.js.
What if I wanted to create
a program that would read a file
from the file system and
pull in its contents and
show those contents?
>> Kyle Simpson: So
I would be able to specify that file from
the command line by giving it a dash,
dash file flag, for instance.
So read the file of NAME and output, for
instance, or whatever we wanted to say.
[COUGH] All right, so now
we could say that we're gonna write
all of our code in this one file.
We have this one file called 2.js,
and we wanna put all of our code here.
But, in reality, we know that we wanna
organize things into different files.
So what if I had the task
of reading a file,
what if I put that into its own module,
where I could just use that module?
So I wanna open up a separate file, and I
want you to save this file, and I want you
to call it helloworld.js cuz we're gonna
create ourselves a module from scratch.
And then we're going to load that module,
and so before I even create the module I'm
just gonna load the module in.
>> Kyle Simpson: So we use that
require statement like we did before.
And you'll notice that when
I did require("minimist"),
I didn't have to give it a path or
a filename, it was just a named module.
That's because it was installed in
one of the default include locations.
But we're gonna put a file directly in our
file root that we call helloworld.js so
we do kind of need to give it
an actual path and file name for
it to know where to find it, okay?
Now, what would our module look like?
>> Kyle Simpson: Our
module that we're gonna
create inside of helloworld,
what we need to do with it
is we need to be able to
have a function that
will read our files out.
So just to make sure I don't
get too far off track,
I'm just gonna have my other one open so
I can keep track of myself.
We're gonna a function who's
responsible for pulling in a file by
filename.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
so if we go back to our our code.
Actually, I said earlier that
we were gonna switch to 2.js,
I think I'm gonna switch back
to this still being 1.js.
I think we're not quite ready for
the switch to two.
It doesn't really matter, but
I'm gonna go back to calling
this 1.js just temporarily.
So helloworld module is still
gonna be in our 1.js file.
And you notice that I'm pulling in
the module, well, what is my API for
my module?
Remember, we talked about
that in JavaScript yesterday.
We talked about the module pattern,
where you have a wrapping function and
it returns some kind of public API.
That's not the way it works in CommonJS.
In CommonJS, inside of this file,
everything that you declare is
automatically assumed to
be private to a module.
So the way that you expose things
on your public API is you're given
a module.exports object that's
already there, it's empty.
And you can add to that object
to add to the public API.
So I can say, .say =
say.
>> Kyle Simpson: Let
me double check just to make sure I'm
doing that the same as we did before.
>> Kyle Simpson: [COUGH] I know what I was
doing, okay.
So rather than calling my module say,
I was supposed to call it hello, okay.
All right, so we're back inside of our
little module that we're gonna create.
And we need a function that when we pass
it a file name, it will read that file.
So we're gonna need a facility for
reading files.
And it turns out that Node has
a standard built in module for
us called the fs module.
So if we pull in that module
by saying fs = require("fs"),
that's gonna allow us to have the file
system module available to us.
And then inside of our function
called say, here on line two,
a little bigger what we want to
do is we want to read the file.
So I could say something
like the contents of
this file is equal to fs.readFileSync and
give it a file name
that I want it to read.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: So line number seven
is basically exposing the API?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah, so
we could have [COUGH] one or
more lines like line number seven,
which add things on to our public API.
Our public API is module.exports.
We could replace the object or
we could add to it.
In this case, we're just gonna add to it.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
so readFileSync does exactly what it
sounds like is that it's going to read
in a file in a synchronous fashion.
Most of the time, people will tell you in
Node that if you're doing something with
a synchronous API,
you're probably doing it wrong.
Because Node is supposed
to be asynchronous, and
we're supposed to have all kinds
of asynchronicity going on,
and don't block the event loop,
don't use blocking APIs.
There's an exception to that rule though,
there's more than one, but
there's an exception to that rule
when you think about the perspective
of command line tools.
Because command line tools are not
running thousands of concurrent
requests against a web server, it's just
a single u in front of a command line.
And if it takes an extra couple of half
seconds to load up something in a blocking
way, that's not a big deal because
it's not like you're trying to run
the same command line 15
different times at the same time.
So synchronous file reading,
or synchronous blocking,
isn't really such a huge sin when we're
dealing with a command line tool.
But when we start to
get into the web world,
It's gonna start to be
a real problem pretty quick.
So let's just test it for right now,
let's test our helloworld.
We've created this module,
we have a o1ne.js that uses it.
But we need to actually say hello.say
cuz we have our hello module and
on it the API is say.
And we need to pass it to file name.
What is the file name?
args.file.
How did I get that?
It's because I changed it so that I'm
looking for file as one of my parameters.
>> Kyle Simpson: Everybody with me so
far?
>> Kyle Simpson: Let's try it.
I have
>> Kyle Simpson: A file
called test.txt.
>> Kyle Simpson: Which
has the helloworld in it.
Actually, we need to do one
more thing in our code, sorry.
We need to say that we return the contents
from that function for right now.
So return those contents
rather than saving them into
a variable.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
then inside of our main program, what we
wanna do is we wanna say var contents.
And then we wanna console
dot log out those contents.
>> Kyle Simpson: Just to recap before
I run it.
We have a helloworld module that does
a readfileSync to pull in whatever
the contents are from
the file that we specify.
It returns that value back to us,
so we call that.
We call hello.say,
passing in the file name.
We get the contents back, and
we print those contents out.
So when we go to our command line,
and we say node 1.js,
we should get the help printed because
we are already dealing with help.
If I say 1.js -- file, I've already
provided to you that test.txt.
So I just use that,
let's call it test.txt.
And when you run it, you're gonna get
something really strange looking now.
Did everybody get something that looks
roughly like that with the buffer being
printed?
>> Speaker 3: Yes.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, so
I do that on purpose to illustrate another
thing that's true about JavaScript.
Even when we're dealing with
synchronous file reading, but
this will be especially true when
we get into streams after lunch,
everything that is dealing with these
data transfers is done in not in terms
of strings the way we're normally
used to dealing with them.
It's not pulling in a string,
it's creating an array buffer.
And an array buffer is
kind of an efficient,
binary representation of our data.
Well, we don't want to look at the
hexadecimal representation of binary data,
that doesn't help us.
So how could we turn our buffer
back into something that's useful?
There's a variety of ways to do it, but
the simplest way to illustrate is
to call toString on our buffer.
So if you come back to line 21 and
you add toString, and
you call it (),
now if we go back to our command line and
we run our command line,
we pull in the helloworld from the file.